Kubernets Security Primitives: 
Secure kubernetes by who can access it? What they can do once they access it?
A. Authentication - who can access? Using Static token file, certificate, service accounts, LDAP(External authentication providers)
B. Authorization - What they can do? using RBAC, ABAC, Node Authoization, Webhook mode
C. TLS Certificates - Each components in the cluster can communicate to Kube-APIServer using certificate by configuring tls certificate.
D. Network Policies - To restrict the pod communication from the one node to other pods in the other node using network policies. 


1. Authentication - who can access? Using Static token file, certificate, service accounts, LDAP(External authentication providers)

Admin: Admin will access cluster for administrative task.
Developers: Developers will access the cluster to deploy the application on the cluster.
End Users: access to applications in the cluster
Bots: Third party services can access k8s cluster.

Service Account: Bots
Diffecrent secure mechanism for the application in the cluster: End users
Static token file: Admin & Developers

Static token file is csv format which has the details like password, username, userid, groupid. 
Note: Static toke file authentication is not a recommended mechanism for securing the kubernetes cluster.


2. TLS Certificate Prerequisites:
What are tls certificates?
How kubernetes use tls cert?
How to generate them? Configure them? View them?
How to trouble shoot tls certificate issues?

TLS Certificate Basics:
Users accessing the webserver

User ---> Web server (symmetric)
user sends username and password by logging the webserver. Also the data sends from the user to the weberver in a encrypted format.
Private key is sent with the encrypted data to decrypt the data from the webserver. Even the private key is encrypted.
Hacker can access the private key and decode it and access the encrypted data of username and password. 
This transaction is known as symmetric transaction.


Users ----> Web server (asymmetric)
User create a private key and public key by generating it. ssh keygen
Private key & Public key is with the webserver.
Whenever the user trying to access the webserver, the user receive the public key from the webserver.
Now user try to login with the encrypted data. Sends Login data with public key to webserver.
Now hacker can access the details of asymmetric transaction so far but hacker doesn't have the private key to decrypt it.


Now there is an other way to hack the user details to hack the bank account by the hackers:
A. They create a exact copy like the webserver we use to see. www.mybank.com
B. If the user trying to access www.mybank.com he can see the hacker created page but it says like not secure kind of error.
C. Error is due to the certificate the hacker used was not authorised by the Certificate Authority.
D. Certificate basically has the info like subject name and signed by authority.
E. Also the webserver will validate the Certificate Authority is authorized one or not by using asymmetric validation. Bcoz the certificate 
   authorized by CSR is hacked one or not.


Conclusion:
Admin use to create a Public key and Private key by openssl keygen to do ssh access for the webserver.
Webserver sends a Certificate request to verify the signature validation with CA. Receives the authroized CERT
Whenever user try to access the webserver, it receive a CERT & Public key from the webserver.
Now user sends the symmetric key to webserver which has encrypted login info with private key. 
Webserver receive the symmetric key with public key and decrypt the data with private key of webserver has.
Finally webserver should validate the client is a authorized person, for this user create a client certificate with CA and sends to webserver.


Short understanding:
Webserver: Admin use to create a Public key and Private key by openssl keygen to do ssh access for the webserver
Certificate Authority: Webserver sends a Certificate request to verify the signature validation with CA. Receives the CERT
Users: Whenever user try to access the webserver the receive a CERT & Public key from the webserver.
       user sends the symmetric key to webserver. Webserver receive the symmetric key with public key and 
       decrypt the data with private key.
Webserver: Should always validate the user is who they are, so they receive a client certificate from the user to validate it.
The above all process is commonly known a Public key infrastructure (PKI)


Public key(certificate): *.crt* / .pem
server.cert
server.pem
client.cert
client.pem


Private key: *.key* / -key.pem
server.key
server-key.pem
client.key
client-key.pem


3. TLS Certificate in Kubernetes
Client Certificates for Clients
Server Certificates for Servers


Server Certificate: Kube-ApiServer, Kubelet, ETCD use to respond to client and it requires server certificate.
Kube-ApiServer - api-server.crt & api-server.key (it use to authenticate with the Https & ETCD, Kubelet)
ETCD - etcd-x-server.crt & etcd-x-server.key
Kubelet - kubelet.crt & kubelet.key


Client Certificate: Admin, Kube-Scheduler, Kube-Proxy, Kube-Controller-Manager use to contact the server and it requires client certificate
admin.crt & admin.key
scheduler.crt & scheduler.key
controller-manager.crt & controller-manager.key
kube-proxy.crt & kube-proxy.key
apiserver-kubelet-client.crt & apiserver-kubelet-client.key
apiserver-etcd-client.crt & apiserver-etcd-client.key
kubelet-client.crt & kubelet-client.key


Using Certitficate Authority we can verify and validate the client and server certificates.

Certificate Authority is not mandatory to be a single Certificate authroized, it can mulitple. 
Eg: API_Server-ETCD client and ETCD server certificate can be one CA 
and other client and server certificates can be other CA

Note: In some cases kubelet will act as server and client too.











