Core Concepts:
K8s Architecture
Pod - define pod details
Replicaset - define auto healing with replicas
Deployment - define pod & replicaset & upgrade image version, rollback, rolling update
Service - define the type of service (nodeport, clusterip, load balancer)
Namespace - define the namespace for the onjects in the node to isolate it
Imperative vs Declarative commands - kubectl run pod <pod_name> vs kubectl apply pod.yml

Scheduling:
Manual selector - Pod with no node details, manually setup the pod with nodes
Node selector - Set key/value in the pod.yml and labels in the node.
Label & selector - set labels for the object and selector will match the labels with other object
Taints & Tolerations: Taints on node, tolerate on pod. Tolerate pod will be assigned to Taint node
Node Affinity: With affinity rules on pod will be assigned to the nodes with labels.
Resource Requirement: Based on the resource reqeust and limits for the pods. Pods will be assigned on the Nodes.
DaemonSets: It's use to assign pods to all the nodes. (logging agent pod can assign to all nodes)
Static Pods: kubelet will create a pod without Master node components help. (control plane components can be deployed with static pods)
PriortiyClasses: For each pod assign to a node is based on the prioirtyclasses. High, low classes will be set and apply it to pods.
MultipleSchedulers: To create a new custom scheduler to assign a pod on the nodes. It can be created via deployment.yml with configmap
Scheduling profiles: Instead of creating a multiple scheduler in a separate profile, we can create all the schedulers in a sinle profile.
Admission controllers: It has the own set of rules to control the kubernetes object creation with "namespaceexist" 
Valdaiting and Mutating controllers: custom can be done with valdiating and mutating admission controllers using webhook server and configuration.

Logging & Monitoring:
Monitoring Cluster components and logs: To retrive the number of nodes in cluster, healthy nodes, to check performance of metrics of the node.
Monitoring Pod logs: To check the performance of metrics on the pods such as CPU, Memory.


Application Lifecycle management:
RollingUpdate & Recreate: While updating the image version in the deployment, rollingupdate will delete and recreate pods one by one. 
                          Recreate strategy will kill all pods and recreated (impact apps)
Configuration command and arguments: We can set command in the deploy.yml file to run the container with python, java based on the image. 
                                     Arguments is env (prod,dev) can be mentioned.
Configuring Env variables: Configuring env variables in the pod definition file. Instead of harcoding in the file, we can use cm or secrets.
Configuring CongiMaps: It's a non-sensitive data, we can create configmaps and configure the key/value in it. Inject configmap in the pods.
Configuring Secrets: It's a sensitive data, we can create secrets and configure the key/value in it. Inject secret in the pods.
Secret-Store-CSI-Driver: Instead of using secrets in k8s, we can use Secrets from Secretmanager of AWS or Azure, hashivault.
Encrypting Secret Data at REST: Enable Encrypt data config in the API-Server, ETCD won't expose the secrets data in it.
Multi-Containers: web-app, main-app pods are created as containers in the pods, scale up together and scale down together.
Init-Containers: Init-containers is basically check the database is started or not, once db starts - init-containers will be down. Main-app starts
Sidecar-Containers: sidecar-containers starts before main-app starts, it will be end after main-app end.
Manual Scaling: Scaling the node, pod can be done using imperative way.
Automate Scaling: Horizontal pod autoscaler, Vertical pod autoscaler. Scaling the pod is HPA. Scaling the resources in the pod is VPA.


Cluster Maintenance: 
Operating System upgrade: OS upgrade on the nodes without affecting the pods in it. Applicable to master and worker nodes.
Kubernetes Release: v1.33.0 (1-major, 33-minor, 0-patches)
Cluster Upgrade: There are some major steps to upgrade the cluster using Kubeadm and Kubelet.
Backup & Restore Methods: Backing up the resource via kube-apiserver and backup the etcd cluster which has all cluster and resoruce creation info.


Security:
Authentication: Who can access the cluster in which method. Admin via certificate & static token file, BOTS via Service account, 
TLS Certificate: User can access the web server deployed in the cluster with the secured way with the help of tls certificate.
Certificate API: User like Admin can get the certificate via API method
KubeConfig file: Cluster, Context, Users all are defined in the kubeconfig file. Context will define like which user can access which cluster






Pending:
1. Create a pod named httpd using the image httpd:alpine in the default namespace.
Then, create a service of type NodePort with the same name (httpd) that exposes the pod on port 80.
# kubectl run httpd --image=httpd:alpine --port=80 --expose   for cluster type
2. Adding a nodename details in the pod.yml file - documentation check
3. secrets.yml file placed in git repository for Dev env, if someone can commit the file and impact the pipeline. How .gitignore and pre-commit tools help.




